Section - 5   INTERPRETING NMAP SCAN RESULTS
---------------------------------------------
What is a TCP/UDP Ports ?
-------------------------
- port :- Ports are simply a software abstraction, used to distinguish between communication channels. Similar to the way IP addresses are used to identify machines on networks, ports identify specific applications in use on a single machine.

- A port is like a doorway or channel inside a computer or network device that allows data to enter or leave.

There are two main types of ports based on the transport protocol:

Protocol	Full Form	  	Type				Features
TCP	Transmission Control Protocol	Connection-oriented	Reliable, ensures delivery, performs error checking
UDP	User Datagram Protocol		Connectionless	Faster, but no guarantee of delivery or order

TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)

Creates a reliable connection before sending data.
Ensures that all packets are delivered in order and without loss.
Used for most important services that need reliability.

 Examples of TCP services:

Service	Port	Description
HTTP	80	Web browsing
HTTPS	443	Secure web browsing
FTP	21	File transfer
SSH	22	Secure remote login
SMTP	25	Sending emails

UDP (User Datagram Protocol)

No connection — sends packets directly, faster but less reliable.
Best for real-time or streaming data, where some packet loss is acceptable.

 Examples of UDP services:

Service	Port	Description
DNS	53	Domain name lookup
DHCP	67, 68	Dynamic IP addressing
TFTP	69	Trivial file transfer
SNMP	161	Network management
NTP	123	Time synchronization

The six Nmap port states
-----------------------------
open —
 A service is listening on the port (Nmap saw a response indicating the port accepts connections).
 Typical TCP signal: target replied SYN/ACK to our SYN (or completed connect).
 Meaning: an application is reachable and may be probed further.

closed —
 The port is reachable but there is no service listening.
 Typical TCP signal: target replied RST.
 Meaning: host is up, port answered, but nothing is accepting connections.

filtered —
 Nmap cannot determine whether the port is open because packets are being dropped/blocked (firewall or filter).
 Typical behaviour: no reply or ICMP unreachable responses.
 Meaning: access is blocked; you can’t tell open vs closed.

unfiltered —
 Nmap can reach the port but cannot determine whether it is open or closed.
 Typical use: used mostly with UDP/ACK scans where reachability is tested; indicates the probe was not blocked.
 Meaning: host responded to probes but port state (open/closed) is unknown.

open|filtered —
 Nmap cannot distinguish between open and filtered (common with UDP, IP protocols, or some scan types that produce ambiguous results).
 Typical behaviour: no response where both “open” or “filtered” are plausible.
 Meaning: either a service accepted the probe silently or responses are being dropped.

closed|filtered —
 Nmap is unsure whether a port is closed or filtered.
 Typical behaviour: ambiguous/noisy responses from certain scan types (rare).
 Meaning: scanner couldn’t definitively decide between closed or filtered for that probe.

. The Stealth Scan
-------------------------
The Stealth Scan (SYN Scan) in Nmap

The Stealth Scan, also known as a SYN scan, is one of the most popular and powerful scan types in Nmap.
It’s called “stealth” because it doesn’t complete the full TCP handshake, making it less likely to be logged or detected by some systems.

Command:- | sudo nmap -sS <target> | | sudo nmap -sS scanme.nmap.org |
          -------------------------------------------------------------
